the word fake vegan has to mean
something most of the time here on the
Internet it gets thrown around as a
caddy and really hypocritical insult by
that I mean many of the people accusing
others of being fake vegans themselves
would be guilty of the same thing if
they applied the criteria fairly on all
sides but ultimately the word is not
meaningless and there are people you'll
meet in real life face-to-face who are
fake vegans in the strictest sense I
think they say they're vegans and
they're not and sometimes when you meet
those people you wonder are they
actually unaware of the meaning of the
term or are they trying to sit cynically
manipulate the term are they trying to
make you like me or the trying to
manipulate you why would they say this
this video is gonna be about Jill Stein
Jill Stein is an American politician and
I think it is fair to say that she's a
she's a fake vegan in just one moment
I'm gonna read out a quotation from her
showing exactly what the problem is more
broadly I think there is a question
early early this morning I was being
asked on Yunel and by social media to
comment on the problem of vegan
celebrities and the problem is that
they're not really vegan now in some
cases they claim to be vegan and they're
not but more often they're celebrities
like Leonardo DiCaprio or currently
Arnold Schwarzenegger they're
celebrities who made vague statements in
support of veganism but who did not
really claim to be vegan themselves if
you pay attention what they said and how
they said it they weren't really rapping
the cause they didn't claim it was their
own diet their own lifestyle uh you know
nor even what they were pursuing as a
political goal but sometimes vegans
dinner have been so eager to appropriate
these people that they misrepresent them
as being vegans and then we get a
different kind of fake vegan phenomenon
where people are being perceived as
vegans they're being expected to
represent veganism when they're not
vegans when they don't represent
veganism and this sets up a peculiar
cycle a cycle in which the most
high-profile most influential most
visible vegans are not vegans
thus the question of who is a fake vegan
is very real and very significant so
Jill Stein is an American politician who
is now running for president nighted
states and she represents the Green
Party on this channel I've criticized
the Green Party many times but I'm
normally talking about the Green Party
of Canada not the Green Party United
States Jill Stein was cornered in an
interview on reddit she was finally
asked directly are you or are you not
vegan because she makes some kind of big
statements about these vegans from my
perspective self contradictory
statements both decision and I will now
read you in entirety her reply it's a
couple sentences long this will feel
like the longest paragraph of your life
so to quote Jill Stein quote we need a
sustainable food system industrial
animal agriculture is not sustainable
not healthy for the planet not healthy
for people and not humane large-scale
feeding operations pollute the water the
air at the soil and fill our food with
antibiotics pesticides just at the paws
you already can tell she's not vegan
because she uses the word food here they
pulled our food with antibiotics
pesticides at home what what food has
hormones in it why are you talking about
potatoes Joba meat we see people with
chicken vegan for few years you actually
don't use the word food this way you
don't complain about hormones in your
food because you don't drink milk and
you don't regard milk as food anyway
just it's a Shibboleth it's a little
implicit thing here but even the way
he's talking about it's clear that he's
someone who still considers eating you
know meat and dairy natural normal and
necessary all right
and I continue with my quote ah we need
a healthy food system our green and New
Deal will move subsidies from harmful
corporate agriculture to small-scale
healthy and sustainable operations pause
F pause again stable small-scale meat
farming meat agriculture just talk about
slitting the throats of cows she talked
about pigs and goats and sheep and
chickens but because it's small-scale
you know it's morally it's morally pure
right anyway I've discussed as many many
times people face-to-face and on the
Internet and what have you if you were
looking at a good Hospital why would you
assume that a small Hospital is morally
spiritual our jaw spittle if you're
looking in factory conditions whether
it's pollution from factories or the
conditions of the employees of the
workers and so on why would you assume
that a small factory is better than a
large factory sometimes a large factory
treats people better than a small
factory there is absolutely nothing
rational or reasonable about her
approach here which is making excuses
for the industry it's saying if you
break it down into smaller pieces its
moral whereas if you look at it in the
aggregate hole it's immoral so anyway
this is to be blunt to you if I'm not
set himself the turmoil user this is
[ __ ] in the parlance of our times in
the slang in the in the Brogue of the
streets of our era this is what you
would call some [ __ ] this is just
nonsense but anyway this quotation ends
quote I have been vegan or vegetarian
for forty five years
currently I am vegan plus fish and
occasional dairy for health reasons so
that is why the term fake vegan exists
or a close quote Jill Stein you are a
fake vegan either you sincerely do not
know the meaning of the word vegan which
seems impossible because you're the
leader of the green party or you're
intentionally trying to manipulate me
the audience the reader if you eat if
you eat dairy you're not vegan you
should know that that's obvious you
included the words vegan you said vegan
or vegetarian you at the contrast there
so you should be aware of the difference
between these things so first and
foremost that's obvious secondly if you
believe there are legitimate health
reasons to eat dairy
you're really not vegan that is that is
totally impossible there are some
extremely obscure health reasons by the
way we're eating meat has to be
justified they're they're really less
than one in a million I've read articles
dealing with that the very very rare
health conditions where you've got a
look at some non vegan but dairy dairy
for health reasons
of course if you eat fish that you're
not vegan or vegetarian your pescetarian
at best so yeah you're you're vegan plus
fish and dairy and and you claim what by
this very malleable standard of the
meaning of the word vegan you've been
vegan or vegetarian for forty-five years
I think so for forty five years you've
been lying that's what this means you're
you've been a liar for forty five years
you've been a fake vegan for forty five
years and of course I mean it's always
an irony but that's if you're a real
vegan you have much more contempt for
this than you have for someone who's a
meat-eater who's honest about it it's
one it's part of human nature
it's how life on Earth goes um look guys
the Green Party in most countries is a
joke not everywhere May if you're
watching this in some of the countries
in Europe there's some Green Party
movement worth talking about go to
Google Image Search and take a look at
Green Party conference Green Party
conference near you search for your
country or your state of your city as
hopeless and pathetic as the Green Party
seems from a vegan perspective and
believe me in Canada it seems especially
pathetic in many ways they have in many
places reach the critical mass of having
conferences of having of making events
happen in a way that we don't you got to
be self-critical what have vegans really
accomplished in the last couple of years
and what can we accomplish if we
continue to work alone
in the way that we have maybe maybe
where you live it's a smart idea to get
involved the Green Party maybe but maybe
also you have to make the hard decision
that these people in terms of their
principles their constitutions what
organizes them they're guiding you know
what the the aspects that define who
they are as political movement that's
not going to change that it's a waste of
your time and energy that you're better
off starting your own movement starting
your own foundation study your own
organization or working with other
people who respect you for being vegan
and working the people whom you can
respect as a vegan because this Jill
Stein inevitably brings on you know
hatred and al-baqi and scoffs of
disbelief from vegans who have very few
choices for who they would look to
delete for leadership but they're not
looking at you they're not looking at
the green part